Book 1/01 Drafts/Scenes/03 - The Herald's Petition.md, before:

---
title: 03 - The Herald's Petition
type: scene
pov: Samantha Seraphel
tense: past
location: [[Winter University]]
timeline: [[Timeline]]
characters: [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Lareth Lakhart]], Administrator
status: draft
created: 2025-08-30
updated: 2025-08-30
---

# 03 — The Herald's Petition

Goal: Present her formal petition for aid after proving her worth through crisis work.
Conflict: Limited time, exhaustion from recent work, and skepticism despite her proven competence.
Turn: Melf's scholarly recognition of Erandia's reality combined with immediate tactical intelligence convinces the triad.
Outcome: Formal investigation authorized; Samantha gains standing to provide further proof.

---

The five minutes began with the Administrator's finger tapping against a pocket watch—brass on brass, marking time like a countdown to execution. Evening shadows had begun to creep across the herbarium's windows, and the day's siege felt like a lifetime ago despite the exhaustion that still weighed Samantha's shoulders. "Five minutes," she said, voice carrying the same granite certainty that had marked emergency supply lists for the past six hours. "The countermeasure works. Your formulation held through yesterday's remaining siege escalations without degrading. You've earned this hearing."

From the courtyard below came the distant sound of boots on stone—patrol shifts changing, guards moving with the heightened alertness of people who knew yesterday's attack was only the beginning. Somewhere a bell tolled once, then again, marking the quarter-hour with grim precision.

Samantha's hands still smelled of binder wash and copper filings despite scrubbing. Her shoulders ached from hunching over the crucible, and her eyes felt gritty from alchemical vapors that made her blink too often. The work had been precise, exhausting, and successful—the first victory she'd been part of since arriving in Codaria. But now she had to set aside the satisfaction of solved problems and reach for larger truths that might sound like madness to tired minds who had already fought one battle today.

Melf rubbed his temples where soot had left smudges despite his careful washing. "Your technique with the binding agents was... unusual," he said, voice hoarse from breathing workshop air. "Precise in ways I don't have terms for. Like you were reading the components' intentions rather than their properties."

Lareth sat with the controlled stillness of someone managing exhaustion through discipline. His astrolabe rested beside notes covered in siege calculations—angles of fire, ward coverage patterns, resource consumption rates. Even now, part of his attention tracked the sounds filtering through the herbarium's walls: the distant shouts of cleanup crews, the clatter of wagons moving supplies. "Speak quickly," he said, not unkindly. "The bells haven't named full retreat, which means we may need to return to the walls."

A shadow passed across the window—too quick for a cloud, too large for a bird. Samantha's paladin senses prickled with wrongness, but when she glanced up, only empty sky remained. Lareth had noticed too; his fingers traced a protective ward against the astrolabe's rim.

Another shadow flickered past, then another. Not random. Circling.

"We should make this quick," Lareth said quietly, his strategic mind already calculating threat vectors. "Whatever those are, they're not natural."

Samantha drew a breath that still tasted faintly of workshop vapors. Her practiced words felt clumsy after hours of precise chemical work, but she forced herself to find the rhythm. "Erandia is a realm where the divine and mortal worlds overlap. My sister rules the northern kingdom as Queen. I serve as her Herald, sent to find allies against enemies who corrupt magic at its source." She met the Administrator's measuring gaze. "The same enemies whose methods you saw today—the chaff designed to foul rather than destroy, the targeting of knowledge over wealth."

"Explain," the Administrator said. One word, delivered with the expectation of efficiency.

"The assault on Coldreach wasn't random sellsword greed. The timing, the alchemical sophistication, the choice to target Ward-staves and libraries—it bears the signature of agents we call the Silence." Samantha's voice steadied as she spoke from intelligence rather than hope. "They serve an enemy god who seeks to drain divine essence from multiple realms. Corruption and chaos serve their goals better than conquest."

Lareth's exhausted eyes sharpened. "Evidence?"

From her satchel, Samantha withdrew not the ornate scroll she might have prepared for a formal court, but a leather-wrapped collection of documents that bore the stains and wear of urgent compilation. "Trade records showing unusual purchase patterns in alchemical reagents. Tactical reports from similar attacks across three realms. And this—" She unfolded a map marked with her own notations. "Attack vectors that make no sense for local political conflicts but perfect sense if you're trying to isolate centers of magical learning."

Melf leaned forward despite his fatigue. "You said 'three realms.' Which realms? And how could you possibly have intelligence from..." He stopped, studying her face with the sudden intensity of someone recognizing a pattern. "Your technique in the crucible. The way you read binding reactions. You're not from here."

"No," Samantha said simply. "I'm from Erandia. Specifically, from Whitehaven—a kingdom where divine presence touches the world more directly. Where temple bells ring with harmonics that shouldn't be physically possible, where paladins serve as peacekeepers, where my sister holds a throne she never wanted against enemies who recruit demonic forces."

The silence stretched, broken only by distant sounds of siege cleanup. Melf rubbed his soot-smudged temples. "Archmagus Theryn used to theorize about such places. Realms anchored by divine covenant, existing 'sideways' to conventional reality. He claimed the acoustic properties alone would be..." He looked up sharply. "Bronze bells for daily hours, silver for sacred ones? Harmonics that linger in stone?"

Samantha's hand went unconsciously to the silver pendant beneath her work-stained shirt. "How could you know that?"

"Because it matches his theoretical predictions exactly." Melf's fatigue seemed to fall away, replaced by the hunger of a scholar scenting truth. "The metallurgy alone would require divine influence to achieve those harmonic properties."

The Administrator's tusks caught the light as she leaned forward. "Three minutes remaining. What exactly do you want from Winter University?"

"A master spellcaster capable of performing the Rite of Resonance." Samantha spread the documents on the table with steady hands. "This working can restore divine connections that the Silence has severed, but it requires exceptional skill and significant risk. The ritual framework is here, along with tactical intelligence about enemy capabilities."

Lareth studied the map with a strategist's eye, tracing attack patterns with one finger. "These coordination points... if this intelligence is accurate, it changes how we understand today's assault." He looked up. "You're offering immediate tactical value alongside long-term alliance."

"The intelligence is real," Samantha said. "The threat is immediate. Today's attack was reconnaissance as much as assault—they're testing your defenses, learning your capabilities."

The Administrator made a precise note in her ledger. "Resources required for this ritual?"

"One master-level caster, substantial magical components, and a secure location where divine working won't be interrupted." Samantha met the half-orc's measuring gaze. "In exchange, Erandia offers alliance against a mutual enemy, trade opportunities across realms, and magical knowledge from a place where divine influence operates differently."

Melf straightened despite his fatigue. "The metallurgical implications alone... temple bells that achieve those harmonics through divine influence rather than purely physical design. The research possibilities..."

A sudden chill swept through the herbarium, making the crystal formations dim briefly. The Administrator's head snapped up, scanning the corners of the room with sharp attention. "Ward fluctuation," she muttered, but her expression suggested something more concerning than routine magical interference.

"One minute," she said, consulting her watch with forced calm. Her scarred fingers drummed once against the table. "Decision point. The intelligence has immediate value. The broader claims require verification." She looked directly at Samantha. "Your competence in crisis work supports credibility. Preliminary investigation is warranted."

Lareth nodded slowly. "The tactical intelligence alone justifies further engagement. If the broader claims prove true..." He gestured at the map. "We need these allies."

"Agreed," the Administrator said with finality. "Formal petition approved for preliminary investigation. You will provide additional evidence for faculty review. If verification succeeds, Winter University authorizes full alliance negotiations with Erandia."

Relief flooded Samantha's chest, followed immediately by the weight of responsibility. "Thank you. I won't forget this trust."

"Don't celebrate yet," the Administrator said, standing with brisk efficiency. "If your enemies are as dangerous as these documents suggest, we may all regret this conversation." She almost smiled. "But we'll definitely regret ignoring the warning."

Lareth rolled up Samantha's intelligence documents with careful precision. "These attack patterns... if they're accurate, this was reconnaissance as much as assault. They'll be back."

"When?" Samantha asked.

"Soon," the Administrator said, her scarred fingers unconsciously touching a ring on her right hand. "But next time, they won't announce themselves with siege engines." She moved to the window, scanning the courtyard below with the paranoid attention of someone who had learned not to trust peaceful intervals. "They'll be subtler. More patient."

Melf gathered his cape around his shoulders, exhaustion finally showing in the slope of his back. "What do you recommend for the verification process? If we're expecting infiltration..."

"Accelerated timeline," the Administrator said without hesitation. "Faculty vote tomorrow morning instead of next week. Full security protocols until then." She turned from the window, expression grim. "And I suggest our Herald friend stays close to University grounds. If her enemies are as sophisticated as these documents indicate, she's safer here than in any inn."

Samantha felt the weight of being hunted settling on her shoulders like a familiar cloak. "I understand. But Administrator—" She hesitated, watching how the older woman's scarred fingers had stilled completely against the table edge. "When I mentioned corruption methods, you... your whole posture changed. Is there something specific you're protecting here?"

The silence stretched uncomfortably. Lareth and Melf exchanged glances, recognizing the same shift in energy Samantha had noticed—the way the Administrator had gone from efficient authority to something closer to wariness.

"Every institution has its foundations," the Administrator said finally, her voice carefully neutral. "Some are older than the buildings above them." She straightened, but not before her hand moved briefly to a ring on her right hand—heavy crystal that seemed to absorb light rather than reflect it. "What matters now is ensuring those foundations remain... stable."

The watch clicked shut. Five minutes had become fifteen, and the real work was just beginning.

---

*Notes: Revised to set up the Administrator's paranoia and ring mystery. Establishes accelerated timeline and security concerns. Hints at University secrets without revealing them. Creates natural bridge to Scene 04's developments.*

Commit message:

Enhance character and location details; refine scene clarity and pacing
- Updated references to the Administrator (Vera) throughout scenes for consistency.
- Added character profile for Vera, detailing her role and history.
- Introduced location profile for Serathis, outlining its significance and tactics.
- Improved clarity in scenes by specifying character actions and motivations.
- Trimmed repetitive sensory details to maintain pacing and engagement.
- Added wikilinks for key terms and concepts to enhance reader navigation.
- Incorporated beta feedback to strengthen emotional resonance and thematic depth.

Book 1/01 Drafts/Scenes/03 - The Herald's Petition.md, after:

title: 03 - The Herald's Petition
The five minutes began with [[Administrator (Winter University)|Vera]]'s finger tapping against a pocket watch—brass on brass, marking time like a countdown to execution.
type: scene
pov: Samantha Seraphel
tense: past
location: [[Winter University]]
timeline: [[Timeline]]
characters: [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Lareth Lakhart]], [[Administrator (Winter University)|Vera]]
status: draft
created: 2025-08-30
updated: 2025-08-30
---

# 03 — The Herald's Petition

Goal: Present her formal petition for aid after proving her worth through crisis work.
Conflict: Limited time, exhaustion from recent work, and skepticism despite her proven competence.
Turn: Melf's scholarly recognition of Erandia's reality combined with immediate tactical intelligence convinces the triad.
Outcome: Formal investigation authorized; Samantha gains standing to provide further proof.

---

The five minutes began with the Administrator's finger tapping against a pocket watch—brass on brass, marking time like a countdown to execution. Evening shadows had begun to creep across the herbarium's windows, and the day's siege felt like a lifetime ago despite the exhaustion that still weighed Samantha's shoulders. "Five minutes," she said, voice carrying the same granite certainty that had marked emergency supply lists for the past six hours. "The countermeasure works. Your formulation held through today's remaining siege escalations without degrading. You've earned this hearing."

From the courtyard below came the distant sound of boots on stone—patrol shifts changing, guards moving with the heightened alertness of people who knew yesterday's attack was only the beginning. Somewhere a bell tolled once, then again, marking the quarter-hour with grim precision.

Samantha's hands still smelled of binder wash and copper filings despite scrubbing. Her shoulders ached from hunching over the crucible, and her eyes felt gritty from alchemical vapors that made her blink too often. The work had been precise, exhausting, and successful—the first victory she'd been part of since arriving in Codaria. But now she had to set aside the satisfaction of solved problems and reach for larger truths that might sound like madness to tired minds who had already fought one battle today.

Melf rubbed his temples where soot had left smudges despite his careful washing. "Your technique with the binding agents was... unusual," he said, voice hoarse from breathing workshop air. "Precise in ways I don't have terms for. Like you were reading the components' intentions rather than their properties."

Lareth sat with the controlled stillness of someone managing exhaustion through discipline. His astrolabe rested beside notes covered in siege calculations—angles of fire, ward coverage patterns, resource consumption rates. Even now, part of his attention tracked the sounds filtering through the herbarium's walls: the distant shouts of cleanup crews, the clatter of wagons moving supplies. "Speak quickly," he said, not unkindly. "The bells haven't named full retreat, which means we may need to return to the walls."

A shadow passed across the window—too quick for a cloud, too large for a bird. Samantha's paladin senses prickled with wrongness, but when she glanced up, only empty sky remained. Lareth had noticed too; his fingers traced a protective ward against the astrolabe's rim.

Another shadow flickered past, then another. Not random. Circling.

"We should make this quick," Lareth said quietly, his strategic mind already calculating threat vectors. "Whatever those are, they're not natural."

Samantha drew a breath that still tasted faintly of workshop vapors. Her practiced words felt clumsy after hours of precise chemical work, but she forced herself to find the rhythm. "Erandia is a realm where the divine and mortal worlds overlap. My sister rules the northern kingdom as Queen. I serve as her Herald, sent to find allies against enemies who corrupt magic at its source." She met the Administrator's measuring gaze. "The same enemies whose methods you saw today—the chaff designed to foul rather than destroy, the targeting of knowledge over wealth."

"Explain," the Administrator said. One word, delivered with the expectation of efficiency.

"The assault on Coldreach wasn't random sellsword greed. The timing, the alchemical sophistication, the choice to target Ward-staves and libraries—it bears the signature of agents we call the Silence." Samantha's voice steadied as she spoke from intelligence rather than hope. "They serve an enemy god who seeks to drain divine essence from multiple realms. Corruption and chaos serve their goals better than conquest."

Lareth's exhausted eyes sharpened. "Evidence?"

From her satchel, Samantha withdrew not the ornate scroll she might have prepared for a formal court, but a leather-wrapped collection of documents that bore the stains and wear of urgent compilation. "Trade records showing unusual purchase patterns in alchemical reagents. Tactical reports from similar attacks across three realms. And this—" She unfolded a map marked with her own notations. "Attack vectors that make no sense for local political conflicts but perfect sense if you're trying to isolate centers of magical learning."

Melf leaned forward despite his fatigue. "You said 'three realms.' Which realms? And how could you possibly have intelligence from..." He stopped, studying her face with the sudden intensity of someone recognizing a pattern. "Your technique in the crucible. The way you read binding reactions. You're not from here."

"No," Samantha said simply. "I'm from Erandia. Specifically, from Whitehaven—a kingdom where divine presence touches the world more directly. Where temple bells ring with harmonics that shouldn't be physically possible, where paladins serve as peacekeepers, where my sister holds a throne she never wanted against enemies who recruit demonic forces."

The silence stretched, broken only by distant sounds of siege cleanup. Melf rubbed his soot-smudged temples. "Archmagus Theryn used to theorize about such places. Realms anchored by divine covenant, existing 'sideways' to conventional reality. He claimed the acoustic properties alone would be..." He looked up sharply. "Bronze bells for daily hours, silver for sacred ones? Harmonics that linger in stone?"

Samantha's hand went unconsciously to the silver pendant beneath her work-stained shirt. "How could you know that?"

"Because it matches his theoretical predictions exactly." Melf's fatigue seemed to fall away, replaced by the hunger of a scholar scenting truth. "The metallurgy alone would require divine influence to achieve those harmonic properties."

The Administrator's tusks caught the light as she leaned forward. "Three minutes remaining. What exactly do you want from Winter University?"

"A master spellcaster capable of performing the Rite of Resonance." Samantha spread the documents on the table with steady hands. "This working can restore divine connections that the Silence has severed, but it requires exceptional skill and significant risk. The ritual framework is here, along with tactical intelligence about enemy capabilities."

Lareth studied the map with a strategist's eye, tracing attack patterns with one finger. "These coordination points... if this intelligence is accurate, it changes how we understand today's assault." He looked up. "You're offering immediate tactical value alongside long-term alliance."

"The intelligence is real," Samantha said. "The threat is immediate. Today's attack was reconnaissance as much as assault—they're testing your defenses, learning your capabilities."

The Administrator made a precise note in her ledger. "Resources required for this ritual?"

"One master-level caster, substantial magical components, and a secure location where divine working won't be interrupted." Samantha met the half-orc's measuring gaze. "In exchange, Erandia offers alliance against a mutual enemy, trade opportunities across realms, and magical knowledge from a place where divine influence operates differently."

Melf straightened despite his fatigue. "The metallurgical implications alone... temple bells that achieve those harmonics through divine influence rather than purely physical design. The research possibilities..."

A sudden chill swept through the herbarium, making the crystal formations dim briefly. The Administrator's head snapped up, scanning the corners of the room with sharp attention. "Ward fluctuation," she muttered, but her expression suggested something more concerning than routine magical interference.

"One minute," she said, consulting her watch with forced calm. Her scarred fingers drummed once against the table. "Decision point. The intelligence has immediate value. The broader claims require verification." She looked directly at Samantha. "Your competence in crisis work supports credibility. Preliminary investigation is warranted."

Lareth nodded slowly. "The tactical intelligence alone justifies further engagement. If the broader claims prove true..." He gestured at the map. "We need these allies."

"Agreed," the Administrator said with finality. "Formal petition approved for preliminary investigation. You will provide additional evidence for faculty review. If verification succeeds, Winter University authorizes full alliance negotiations with Erandia."

Relief flooded Samantha's chest, followed immediately by the weight of responsibility. "Thank you. I won't forget this trust."

"Don't celebrate yet," the Administrator said, standing with brisk efficiency. "If your enemies are as dangerous as these documents suggest, we may all regret this conversation." She almost smiled. "But we'll definitely regret ignoring the warning."

Lareth rolled up Samantha's intelligence documents with careful precision. "These attack patterns... if they're accurate, this was reconnaissance as much as assault. They'll be back."

"When?" Samantha asked.

"Soon," the Administrator said, her scarred fingers unconsciously touching a ring on her right hand. "But next time, they won't announce themselves with siege engines." She moved to the window, scanning the courtyard below with the paranoid attention of someone who had learned not to trust peaceful intervals. "They'll be subtler. More patient."

Melf gathered his cape around his shoulders, exhaustion finally showing in the slope of his back. "What do you recommend for the verification process? If we're expecting infiltration..."

"Accelerated timeline," the Administrator said without hesitation. "Faculty vote tomorrow morning instead of next week. Full security protocols until then." She turned from the window, expression grim. "And I suggest our Herald friend stays close to University grounds. If her enemies are as sophisticated as these documents indicate, she's safer here than in any inn."

Samantha felt the weight of being hunted settling on her shoulders like a familiar cloak. "I understand. But Administrator—" She hesitated, watching how the older woman's scarred fingers had stilled completely against the table edge. "When I mentioned corruption methods, you... your whole posture changed. Is there something specific you're protecting here?"

The silence stretched uncomfortably. Lareth and Melf exchanged glances, recognizing the same shift in energy Samantha had noticed—the way the Administrator had gone from efficient authority to something closer to wariness.

"Every institution has its foundations," the Administrator said finally, her voice carefully neutral. "Some are older than the buildings above them." She straightened, but not before her hand moved briefly to a ring on her right hand—heavy crystal that seemed to absorb light rather than reflect it. "What matters now is ensuring those foundations remain... stable."

The watch clicked shut. Five minutes had become fifteen, and the real work was just beginning.

---

*Notes: Revised to set up the Administrator's paranoia and ring mystery. Establishes accelerated timeline and security concerns. Hints at University secrets without revealing them. Creates natural bridge to Scene 04's developments.*
