Book 1/05 Locations/Regions/Codaria.md, before:

---
title: Codaria (The Code)
type: region
status: draft
aliases: [Code, Codaria]
tags: [#location, #region, #north-island]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Codaria (The Code)

- Overview: A northerly island with long winters, sharp coasts, and slate-dark seas. Harbor towns cling to fjords; inland, snow-pine forests and basalt ridges dominate.
- Climate: Subarctic maritime—stormy autumns, deep snows, brilliant short summers.
- People: Stoic mariners and craftspeople; strong guilds, communal warding traditions.
- Governance: City-council confederation; deference to [[Winter University]] for arcane advisement.

## Culture & Customs
- Winter Contracts: Oaths sworn at first frost; breaking them is both legal and spiritual offense.
- Hearth Wards: Household sigils taught by university outreach; magic is pragmatic and respected.
- Humor: Dry, deadpan; pranks expected to be clever, not cruel.

## Locations
- [[Winter University]] — Codaria’s intellectual and magical heart.
- [[Coldreach]] — Frontier port city often tested by storms and raiders (siege site).
- Blackwater Sound — Treacherous channel; smugglers and ice-witches rumored.

## Magic & Threats
- Arcane Ecology: Leylines braided beneath basalt. Amplifies transmutation and evocation.
- Current Threats: Foreign sellswords probing defenses; whispers of ward failures and corruption.

 

## Links
- See [[Outline]], [[Beat Sheet]], [[Timeline]], and characters: [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Lareth Lakhart]], [[Samantha Seraphel]].

Commit message:

Refactor scenes and character details to enhance narrative clarity and continuity; update timeline and location descriptions for consistency in the context of the Coldreach siege.

Book 1/05 Locations/Regions/Codaria.md, after:

---
title: Codaria (T## Locations
- [[Winter University]] — Codaria's intellectual and magical heart.
- [[Winterholme]] — Main city containing [[Winter University]] and the port district of [[Coldreach]].
- [[Coldreach]] — Frontier port district of [[Winterholme]], often tested by storms and raiders (siege site).
- Blackwater Sound — Treacherous channel; smugglers and ice-witches rumored.ode)
type: region
status: draft
aliases: [Code, Codaria]
tags: [#location, #region, #north-island]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Codaria (The Code)

- Overview: A northerly island with long winters, sharp coasts, and slate-dark seas. Harbor towns cling to fjords; inland, snow-pine forests and basalt ridges dominate.
- Climate: Subarctic maritime—stormy autumns, deep snows, brilliant short summers.
- People: Stoic mariners and craftspeople; strong guilds, communal warding traditions.
- Governance: City-council confederation; deference to [[Winter University]] for arcane advisement.

## Culture & Customs
- Winter Contracts: Oaths sworn at first frost; breaking them is both legal and spiritual offense.
- Hearth Wards: Household sigils taught by university outreach; magic is pragmatic and respected.
- Humor: Dry, deadpan; pranks expected to be clever, not cruel.

## Locations
- [[Winter University]] — Codaria’s intellectual and magical heart.
- [[Coldreach]] — Frontier port city often tested by storms and raiders (siege site).
- Blackwater Sound — Treacherous channel; smugglers and ice-witches rumored.

## Magic & Threats
- Arcane Ecology: Leylines braided beneath basalt. Amplifies transmutation and evocation.
- Current Threats: Foreign sellswords probing defenses; whispers of ward failures and corruption.

 

## Links
- See [[Outline]], [[Beat Sheet]], [[Timeline]], and characters: [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Lareth Lakhart]], [[Samantha Seraphel]].
