Book 1/04 Characters/PCs/Lareth Lakhart.md, before:

---
title: Lareth Lakhart
type: character
role: Protagonist
status: active
age: ~120 (half-elf; lifespan ~160)
height: 1.70 m
species: Half-elf
class: Sorcerer (War/Destructive)
affiliation: Winter University (Professor)
tags: [#character, #pc, #professor, #sorcerer, #war-mage]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Lareth Lakhart

- Occupation: War-trained sorcerer; former highest-rank war mage in Florian; professor focusing on large-scale evocation and battlefield control.
- Reputation: Calm under fire; known for giant fire spells and disciplined spellcraft.

## GMC
- Goal: Keep Codaria secure while modernizing the University’s defense doctrine.
- Motivation: Hungry for knowledge and power; left war in Florian to teach, yet conflict follows. When stakes demand it, he turns his drive toward saving students.
- Conflict: Past campaigns in Florian haunt decisions; collateral damage vs. surgical restraint; ambition vs. duty to protect.

## Background
- Florian Service: Rose to Marshal Arcanum (highest war-mage rank). Returned to academia to escape war’s cycle; maintains strategic rigor.

## Abilities
- High-output evocations (fire-centric), counter-siege tactics, unit coordination.
- Tactical thinker; balances destructive force with protection wards.

## Relationships
- Lifelong friend: [[Melf Maelstorm]]; iron sharpens iron.
- New ally: [[Samantha Seraphel]]; takes her claims seriously sooner than most.
- Faculty peer: [[Winter University]].
 - Leadership: Elected High Mage of [[Winter University]] after the death of [[Gorran Thricebind]] to guide wartime defense.

## Wounds & Fears
- Wound: War memories; a decisive strike that saved many but cost too much.
- Fear: Becoming a blunt instrument; losing the people he’s sworn to protect.

## Arc Notes
- Act I: Scorches mercenary siege lines, reveals discipline over bravado.
- Act II: Must temper power with trust—lets others take lead when needed.
- Act III: Channels force through community; victory measured by lives preserved.

## Voice Cues
- Sparse words, tactical clarity; less quip, more cadence.

## Continuity
- Surname confirmed: Lakhart.

## Links
- See also: [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Codaria]], [[Winter University]], [[Outline]], [[Beat Sheet]], [[Timeline]]

Commit message:

Refactor scenes and character details; introduce new magic system
- Revised Scene 01: Siege at Coldreach for clarity and tension; adjusted character actions and outcomes.
- Added Scene 02: Petition in the Winter Garden, detailing Samantha's plea for aid at Winter University.
- Established a new Magic System document outlining "The Lattice" and its mechanics.
- Updated character profiles for Lareth Lakhart and Melf Maelstorm to include new abilities and roles.
- Enhanced Samantha Seraphel's profile with details on her faith and abilities.
- Expanded Winter University documentation to include security protocols and lab features.
- Updated glossary with new terms related to the magic system.
- Revised scene template to clarify POV and interiority guidelines.
- Adjusted style guide to emphasize narrative POV and verb tense consistency.

Book 1/04 Characters/PCs/Lareth Lakhart.md, after:

---
title: Lareth Lakhart
type: character
role: Protagonist
status: active
age: ~120 (half-elf; lifespan ~160)
height: 1.70 m
species: Half-elf
class: Sorcerer (War/Destructive)
affiliation: Winter University (Professor)
tags: [#character, #pc, #professor, #sorcerer, #war-mage, #astronomer]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-30
---

# Lareth Lakhart

- Occupation: War-trained sorcerer; former highest-rank war mage in Florian; professor focusing on large-scale evocation and battlefield control; practicing astronomer.
- Reputation: Calm under fire; known for giant fire spells and disciplined spellcraft.

## GMC
- Goal: Keep Codaria secure while modernizing the University’s defense doctrine.
- Motivation: Hungry for knowledge and power; left war in Florian to teach, yet conflict follows. When stakes demand it, he turns his drive toward saving students.
- Conflict: Past campaigns in Florian haunt decisions; collateral damage vs. surgical restraint; ambition vs. duty to protect.

## Background
- Florian Service: Rose to Marshal Arcanum (highest war-mage rank). Returned to academia to escape war’s cycle; maintains strategic rigor.

## Abilities
- High-output evocations (fire-centric), counter-siege tactics, unit coordination.
 - Lattice Sight: perceives The Lattice directly—flows and tension; uses this to stitch precise fire lines and prevent misfires.
 - Discipline: cadenced casting and restraint; keeps team work clean and safe under pressure.
 - Capacity & Control: Exceptional capacity paired with battlefield-scale control; steady voice and cadence let him hold large effects without drift.
- Astronomy and timekeeping: sky charts, conjunction tracking, navigation by stars; applies celestial timing to spell planning.

## Appearance
- Trimmed beard and slick hair; prefers clean, ordered presentation even in the field.

## Relationships
- Lifelong friend: [[Melf Maelstorm]]; iron sharpens iron.
- New ally: [[Samantha Seraphel]]; takes her claims seriously sooner than most.
- Faculty peer: [[Winter University]].
 - Leadership: Elected High Mage of [[Winter University]] after the death of [[Gorran Thricebind]] to guide wartime defense.

## Wounds & Fears
- Wound: War memories; a decisive strike that saved many but cost too much.
- Fear: Becoming a blunt instrument; losing the people he’s sworn to protect.

## Arc Notes
- Act I: Scorches mercenary siege lines, reveals discipline over bravado.
- Act II: Must temper power with trust—lets others take lead when needed.
- Act III: Channels force through community; victory measured by lives preserved.

## Voice Cues
- Sparse words, tactical clarity; less quip, more cadence.

## Continuity
- Surname confirmed: Lakhart.

## Links
- See also: [[Melf Maelstorm]], [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Codaria]], [[Winter University]], [[Outline]], [[Beat Sheet]], [[Timeline]]
