Book 1/02 Plot/Outline.md, before:

---
title: Book 1 — Outline
tags: [book/book1, type/outline]
status: draft
---

# Book 1 — Outline

## Logline
On the storm-lashed island of [[Codaria]], a siege orchestrated by [[Serathis (Eastern Realm)]] topples [[Coldreach]], thrusting [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Melf Maelstorm]], and [[Lareth Lakhart]] into a scramble to secure a legendary sword and book—relics of the fallen angel Gosh—before rival powers and the demon-god [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] seize them.

## Premise
Codaria reels when [[Coldreach]] falls—its siege covertly funded by the eastern realm of [[Serathis (Eastern Realm)]], ruled by Lady Vaelora Serath, who seeks a cursed artifact: a sword and its companion book once borne by the fallen angel Gosh. The blade can only be purified by [[Samantha Seraphel]]. Professors [[Melf Maelstorm]] and [[Lareth Lakhart]] unite with Samantha to locate the relics first and keep them from three competing forces: Serathis (whose ruler employs Karol-Elf), the western kingdom of [[Kandar (Western Realm)]], and its [[Paladin King (Kandar)]], who demands the artifact be retrieved. The dark-elf sorcerer [[Tengus]]—possibly kin to Lareth—has secretly bargained with [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] to unleash minotaur demons on Codaria as a test before turning on [[Florian]]. The trio resolves not to surrender the relics until they lift the curse and prevent the sword from opening a demon gate.

## Acts Overview
- Act I: Fall of [[Coldreach]] — Samantha meets Melf and Lareth during the siege; they lose the city as eastern-backed brigands breach the defenses. In the retreat’s wake, clues point to the Sword and Book of Gosh and to rival realms converging on Codaria.
- Act II: The Relics and the Net — A race to trace the relics’ trail pits the trio against agents of Serathis, envoys of Kandar, edicts from the Paladin King, and the maneuvering of [[Tengus]]. Mid-book, the [[Paladin King (Kandar)]] dies attempting to wield the unpurified sword, catalyzing Baramoth’s incursion that destroys his city. Corrupted seals and failing wards cluster around the relic sites; Melf’s ingenuity, Lareth’s force, and Samantha’s oathcraft keep the group ahead.
- Act III: Unbinding the Curse — [[Tengus]] triggers a full gate for [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] and minotaur demons. Samantha begins purification using the [[Book of Gosh]] while Melf unleashes necessary, terrifying blood magic; Melf’s daughters aid in stopping Baramoth’s manifestation. Baramoth’s death explodes with lethal force; Gosh’s intervention shields many, but [[Lareth Lakhart]] sacrifices himself to protect students at [[Winter University]]. [[Tengus]] dies by Samantha’s hand. The outcome preserves Codaria at a heavy cost and sets larger powers in motion for the next book.

## Chapter-by-Chapter
- Ch1: Fall of [[Coldreach]]
	- Samantha reaches the walls amid alarm; Melf and Lareth coordinate defense.
	- Inciting Incident: Wards fail at a critical moment; eastern-funded brigands exploit the breach.
		- Outcome: Coldreach falls; orderly retreat toward [[Winter University]]. Seed: rumor that a woman in the East commands the brigands and employs Karol-Elf.
- Ch2: Ash and Edicts
	- Refugees and faculty debrief; edicts arrive from the Paladin King to retrieve a holy artifact.
	- Clues point to the Sword and Book of Gosh resurfacing; Kandar and Serathis envoys land in Codaria.
	- Complication: Karol-Elf’s involvement ties Melf’s family to Lady Vaelora Serath.
	- Leadership: Following Vera Thricebind’s death, faculty elect [[Lareth Lakhart]] as High Mage to coordinate wartime defense and research.
- Ch3: The First Seal
	- Trail leads to an old warded site where corruption lingers around a seal.
	- Turning Point: Evidence confirms the sword’s curse can open a demon gate; purification requires Samantha.
- Ch4: Rivals in the Snow
	- Skirmish with agents from East/West and an appearance or message from [[Tengus]].
	- Decision: Do not surrender the relics until de-cursed; go to ground with allies.

- ChX: Dawnspear’s Folly
	- The [[Paladin King (Kandar)]]—Alistair Dawnspear—attempts to wield the unpurified sword. Catastrophic backfire opens a gate; Baramoth’s minotaur demons overrun the city. The king dies; the trio barely escapes with crucial clues.

- ChY: The Gate at Winter
	- [[Tengus]] springs his pact to summon [[Baramoth (Demon God)]]. Samantha enacts the counter-rite; Melf spends blood to bind and still the explosion-bound death; Lareth holds the line and gives his life to shield the students. Gosh’s grace saves the rest. Samantha defeats Tengus.

Notes: Link characters like [[04 Characters/]] and locations like [[05 Locations/]] as you outline.

Commit message:

Integrate Kandar plotline: added West Kingdom thread with foreknowledge of the Book; created emissary character; seeded aid discussion in Scene 09; updated Outline and Future Scene Notes; revised Timeline entries for Y1 M1 D6; tightened dialogue in Scene 09; pruned overuse of "lattice sight" for consistency.

Book 1/02 Plot/Outline.md, after:

---
title: Book 1 — Outline
tags: [book/book1, type/outline]
status: draft
---

# Book 1 — Outline

## Logline
On the storm-lashed island of [[Codaria]], a siege orchestrated by [[Serathis (Eastern Realm)]] topples [[Coldreach]], thrusting [[Samantha Seraphel]], [[Melf Maelstorm]], and [[Lareth Lakhart]] into a scramble to secure a legendary sword and book—relics of the fallen angel Gosh—before rival powers and the demon-god [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] seize them.

## Premise
Codaria reels when [[Coldreach]] falls—its siege covertly funded by the eastern realm of [[Serathis (Eastern Realm)]], ruled by Lady Vaelora Serath, who seeks a cursed artifact: a sword and its companion book once borne by the fallen angel Gosh. The blade can only be purified by [[Samantha Seraphel]]. Professors [[Melf Maelstorm]] and [[Lareth Lakhart]] unite with Samantha to locate the relics first and keep them from three competing forces: Serathis (whose ruler employs Karol-Elf), the western kingdom of [[Kandar (Western Realm)]], and its [[Paladin King (Kandar)]], who demands the artifact be retrieved. The dark-elf sorcerer [[Tengus]]—possibly kin to Lareth—has secretly bargained with [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] to unleash minotaur demons on Codaria as a test before turning on [[Florian]]. The trio resolves not to surrender the relics until they lift the curse and prevent the sword from opening a demon gate.

Hidden knowledge: Unknown to the protagonists, Kandar has obtained intelligence that the [[Book of Gosh]] lies beneath [[Winter University]], and plans to leverage it to locate the [[Sword of Gosh]].

## Acts Overview
- Act I: Fall of [[Coldreach]] — Samantha meets Melf and Lareth during the siege; they lose the city as eastern-backed brigands breach the defenses. In the retreat’s wake, clues point to the Sword and Book of Gosh and to rival realms converging on Codaria.
- Act II: The Relics and the Net — A race to trace the relics’ trail pits the trio against agents of Serathis, envoys of Kandar, edicts from the Paladin King, and the maneuvering of [[Tengus]]. Mid-book, the [[Paladin King (Kandar)]] dies attempting to wield the unpurified sword, catalyzing Baramoth’s incursion that destroys his city. Corrupted seals and failing wards cluster around the relic sites; Melf’s ingenuity, Lareth’s force, and Samantha’s oathcraft keep the group ahead.
- Act III: Unbinding the Curse — [[Tengus]] triggers a full gate for [[Baramoth (Demon God)]] and minotaur demons. Samantha begins purification using the [[Book of Gosh]] while Melf unleashes necessary, terrifying blood magic; Melf’s daughters aid in stopping Baramoth’s manifestation. Baramoth’s death explodes with lethal force; Gosh’s intervention shields many, but [[Lareth Lakhart]] sacrifices himself to protect students at [[Winter University]]. [[Tengus]] dies by Samantha’s hand. The outcome preserves Codaria at a heavy cost and sets larger powers in motion for the next book.

## Chapter-by-Chapter
- Ch1: Fall of [[Coldreach]]
	- Samantha reaches the walls amid alarm; Melf and Lareth coordinate defense.
	- Inciting Incident: Wards fail at a critical moment; eastern-funded brigands exploit the breach.
		- Outcome: Coldreach falls; orderly retreat toward [[Winter University]]. Seed: rumor that a woman in the East commands the brigands and employs Karol-Elf.
- Ch2: Ash and Edicts
	- Refugees and faculty debrief; edicts arrive from the Paladin King to retrieve a holy artifact.
	- Clues point to the Sword and Book of Gosh resurfacing; Kandar and Serathis envoys land in Codaria.
	- Complication: Karol-Elf’s involvement ties Melf’s family to Lady Vaelora Serath.
	- Leadership: Following Vera Thricebind’s death, faculty elect [[Lareth Lakhart]] as High Mage to coordinate wartime defense and research.
- Ch3: The First Seal
	- Trail leads to an old warded site where corruption lingers around a seal.
	- Turning Point: Evidence confirms the sword’s curse can open a demon gate; purification requires Samantha.
- Ch4: Rivals in the Snow
	- Skirmish with agents from East/West and an appearance or message from [[Tengus]].
	- Decision: Do not surrender the relics until de-cursed; go to ground with allies.

- Ch9/Next Scene Seed: Lines of Authority (Guard HQ)
	- Lareth and Aldara debate whether to request aid from [[Kandar (Western Realm)]] to counter Serathis expansion; plant rumor of a Kandaran envoy operating under mercantile cover.

- ChX: Dawnspear’s Folly
	- The [[Paladin King (Kandar)]]—Alistair Dawnspear—attempts to wield the unpurified sword. Catastrophic backfire opens a gate; Baramoth’s minotaur demons overrun the city. The king dies; the trio barely escapes with crucial clues.

- ChY: The Gate at Winter
	- [[Tengus]] springs his pact to summon [[Baramoth (Demon God)]]. Samantha enacts the counter-rite; Melf spends blood to bind and still the explosion-bound death; Lareth holds the line and gives his life to shield the students. Gosh’s grace saves the rest. Samantha defeats Tengus.

Notes: Link characters like [[04 Characters/]] and locations like [[05 Locations/]] as you outline.
