Book 1/03 Worldbuilding/Items/Sword of Gosh.md, before:

---
title: Sword of Gosh
type: item
status: draft
tags: [#item, #artifact, #cursed]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Sword of Gosh

- Origin: Forged for the fallen angel Gosh; paired with the [[Book of Gosh]].
- Appearance: Pale metal with a dim inner sheen; inscriptions masked by soot-like tarnish.
- Lore: Said to answer only to the bearer who knows the true charge of Gosh; purification possible only through [[Samantha Seraphel]].

## Powers (Unpurified)
- Edge that parts wards as if they’re cloth.
- Resonance with seals; agitates nearby corrupted sigils.

## Curse
- Attempts to open a demon gate when invoked at full power; seeks [[Baramoth (Demon God)]], unleashing minotaur demons as shock-troops.
- Corruptive Whispers: Urges ends-justify-means bargains.

## Costs & Limits
- Draws vitality; repeated use worsens local corruption.
- Cannot be fully controlled without the Book’s counter-rites.

## Purification
- Requires a paladin-herald bearing aligned oaths ([[Samantha Seraphel]]), a counter-rite from the [[Book of Gosh]], and a sanctified locus.
- On success: Gate-opening is severed; edge retains ward-parting without fueling corruption.

## Current Status
- Rumored resurfaced on Codaria; contested by East, West, and the Paladin King’s agents. A failed attempt by the Paladin King to wield it unpurified precipitated Baramoth’s incursion and the destruction of his city.

## Links
- See also: [[Book of Gosh]], [[Outline]].

Commit message:

Refactor and expand lore elements across multiple files
- Updated the Timeline.md with detailed event entries related to the Coldreach siege and subsequent actions.
- Enhanced Erandia.md to clarify royal lineage and the nature of angelic heritage for key characters.
- Added sections to Book of Gosh.md and Sword of Gosh.md detailing their guardianship, current status, and significance in the ongoing conflict.
- Introduced a new character file for the Administrator of Winter University, outlining her role and hidden elements.
- Expanded Lady Vaelora Serath.md to include her relationships, motivations, and current operations against Winter University.
- Created a new character file for Lumina Maelstorm, detailing her political role and family dynamics.
- Added a new character file for Tengus, refining his motivations and abilities as a major antagonist.
- Updated Lareth Lakhart.md to clarify his abilities and connections to the overarching plot.
- Revised Samantha Seraphel.md to reflect her background, motivations, and relationships more accurately.
- Introduced new location files for Mesothenna and Grettany, detailing their political significance and connections to the plot.
- Expanded the Glossary.md to include new terms and definitions relevant to the story's lore and characters.

Book 1/03 Worldbuilding/Items/Sword of Gosh.md, after:

---
title: Sword of Gosh
type## Current Status
- Located in sealed chambers beneath [[Winter University]], paired with the [[Book of Gosh]]
- Actively sought by multiple factions: [[Lady Vaelora Serath]] of [[Serathis]], [[Tengus]] (dark elf sorcerer), and [[Samantha Seraphel]] (purification purpose)
- **Security Crisis**: Containment seals compromised by Serathis infiltration, forcing immediate action
- **Guardian Awakening**: Undead dragon stirring in response to multiple powerful presences
- **Three-Way Conflict**: Diplomatic agents, overwhelming sorcerer, and paladin herald all converging on artifact location
- **Escalation Point**: Tengus has abandoned subtlety, threatening mass destruction if denied access
- Previous failed attempt by the Paladin King to wield it unpurified precipitated Baramoth's incursion and destroyed his city
- **Critical Junction**: Current conflict may determine whether artifacts are purified, corrupted, or unleash demonic incursionitem
status: draft
tags: [#item, #artifact, #cursed]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Sword of Gosh

- Origin: Forged for the fallen angel Gosh; paired with the [[Book of Gosh]].
- Appearance: Pale metal with a dim inner sheen; inscriptions masked by soot-like tarnish.
- Lore: Said to answer only to the bearer who knows the true charge of Gosh; purification possible only through [[Samantha Seraphel]].

## Powers (Unpurified)
- Edge that parts wards as if they’re cloth.
- Resonance with seals; agitates nearby corrupted sigils.

## Curse
- Attempts to open a demon gate when invoked at full power; seeks [[Baramoth (Demon God)]], unleashing minotaur demons as shock-troops.
- Corruptive Whispers: Urges ends-justify-means bargains.

## Costs & Limits
- Draws vitality; repeated use worsens local corruption.
- Cannot be fully controlled without the Book’s counter-rites.

## Purification
- Requires a paladin-herald bearing aligned oaths ([[Samantha Seraphel]]), a counter-rite from the [[Book of Gosh]], and a sanctified locus.
- On success: Gate-opening is severed; edge retains ward-parting without fueling corruption.

## Current Status
- Rumored resurfaced on Codaria; contested by East, West, and the Paladin King’s agents. A failed attempt by the Paladin King to wield it unpurified precipitated Baramoth’s incursion and the destruction of his city.

## Links
- See also: [[Book of Gosh]], [[Outline]].
