Book 1/05 Locations/Cities/Coldreach.md, before:

---
title: Coldreach
type: city
status: draft
tags: [#location, #city, #codaria]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Coldreach

- Summary: Frontier port city on the fjord edge of [[Codaria]]; frequent storms, resilient docks, and a wall reinforced by University designs.
- Reputation: Tough, communal, skeptical until convinced.

## Districts & Features
- North Wall — site of the opening siege and ward-stave anomalies.
- Harbor Quarter — ice-scarred pilings; winter fleets pulled to sheds.
- Council Hall — compact, timbered, practical.

## Security & Wards
- Civic sigils tied to hearth-wards; University-standard staves along parapets.
- Recent Issue: "Bleeding" wards consistent with magic-drain patterns.

## Current Events
- Fell after a siege by foreign sellswords covertly funded by [[Serathis|Serathis (Eastern Realm)]].
- Sellswords wear onyx sea-drake pins; West Gate breach forced an organized retreat toward [[Winter University]]. See [[Timeline#Y1 M1 D1 — West Gate breach; withdrawal horn and bells call districts to inner ways; organized retreat toward Winter University. See Coldreach.]].

 

## Links
- See also: [[Winter University]], [[Codaria]], [[01 - Siege at Coldreach]], [[Outline]].

Commit message:

Add new magical abilities, devices, and organizations to worldbuilding
- Introduced "Smite" ability with detailed mechanics and combat applications.
- Added "Glyph-Arches" and "Rune-Kilns" as new magical infrastructure devices.
- Created "Ward-Staves" for defensive magic with maintenance requirements.
- Established "Redline Three" crisis protocol for Winter University during emergencies.
- Documented "North Bend" district in Coldreach, highlighting its vulnerabilities.
- Expanded Winter University facilities with "Green Crucible" and "Winter Garden" for alchemical research.
- Updated glossary with key terms related to magic and crisis management.

Book 1/05 Locations/Cities/Coldreach.md, after:

---
title: Coldreach
type: city
status: draft
tags: [#location, #city, #codaria]
created: 2025-08-29
updated: 2025-08-29
---

# Coldreach

- Summary: Frontier port city on the fjord edge of [[Codaria]]; frequent storms, resilient docks, and a wall reinforced by University designs.
- Reputation: Tough, communal, skeptical until convinced.

## Districts & Features
- North Wall — site of the opening siege and ward-stave anomalies; North Bend particularly vulnerable to assault.
- West Gate — breached during the siege, forcing organized retreat.
- Harbor Quarter — ice-scarred pilings; winter fleets pulled to sheds.
- Council Hall — compact, timbered, practical.

## Security & Wards
- Civic sigils tied to hearth-wards; University-standard ward-staves along parapets that can be fouled by alchemical chaff (salted ash and iron grit).
- Recent Issue: "Bleeding" wards consistent with magic-drain patterns; staves require cleaning and counter-marking to restore function.
- North Bend: Vulnerable section where wind cuts worst, susceptible to ladder assaults.

## Current Events
- Fell after a siege by foreign sellswords covertly funded by [[Serathis|Serathis (Eastern Realm)]].
- Sellswords wear onyx sea-drake pins; West Gate breach forced an organized retreat toward [[Winter University]]. See [[Timeline#Y1 M1 D1 — West Gate breach; withdrawal horn and bells call districts to inner ways; organized retreat toward Winter University. See Coldreach.]].

 

## Links
- See also: [[Winter University]], [[Codaria]], [[01 - Siege at Coldreach]], [[Outline]].
